---
title: "Atypical: Season 4 Episode 1 Transcript"
categories: Language
updated: 
comments: true
mathjax: false
---

一时兴起的听写, 不保证对. 听了个开头 (然后看完了), Sam 的台词最容易听.

<!-- more -->

## 0~1:50

Sam (Narrator): In the beginning of a journey, no one knows what to expect.

Doug: You have some **drafty** windows and the bathroom door sticks. But otherwise, it's okay. I'm proud of you.

Elsa: Your own place. I can't believe it. Look at you. You're so grown up. You could be twenty.

Sam (Narrator): Sure they might have a vague idea that the road ahead might be rough. 

Doug: How are the smoke alarms? Are they up to date? Can never be sure for these old buildings.

Sam: Double checking the **safety precaution** was a whole section of my moving checklist. We have new smoke alarms, first-aid kits, and an axe.

Elsa: An axe?

Sam: In case of fire. It belongs to Zahid's uncle who was the first ever Indian lumberjack from Vermont. They call him the Maple Syrup Swami.

Elsa: An axe?

Sam (Narrator): But no one sets off on expedition thinking: in four months I'll have a crippling case of scurvy (坏血病), and be forced to eat a sled dog.

Elsa: And this is where you can sit when we talk on Facetime every night.

Sam: Every night?

Elsa: I **talk myself down** from three times a day. So that is my best and final offer.

Doug: You want us to **stick around** to help you to set up?

Sam: No, thank you. Edison's **had a big day**. We need quiet.

Elsa: Okay. You wanna **hold on to** these boxes just in case?

Sam: No. Why? You can throw them away. There is a dumpster (大垃圾桶) **out front**. It's green, and someone named Dogface painted their name on it.

> A dumpster is a movable waste container designed to be brought and taken away by a special collection vehicle, or to a bin that a specially designed garbage truck lifts, empties into its hopper, and lowers, on the spot. The word is a generic trademark of *Dumpster*, an American brand name for a specific design.

> 因为不明性别所以用 their, 可以参考 [Welcome, singular "they"](https://apastyle.apa.org/blog/singular-they). 翻译的时候也避免假定性别, 翻译为 "自己的 (名字)", 可以参考 [联合国性别包容性语言](https://www.un.org/zh/gender-inclusive-language/guidelines.shtml). 本集中后面也出现了学校性别协会.

Elsa: Okie doke.

Sam: You can go.

Elsa: You are not allowed to make fun of me for crying.

> Elsa 讲得真的好快, ruaruarua 就过去了 orz

Doug: Same to you.

Sam (Narrator): That's what makes the new beginning so exciting. You don't know what will happen util it's over.

## 2:14~3:42

Zahid: Here it comes.

Sam: Shh...

Zahid: I'm so excited.

Sam: Quite. 

Zahid 吹喇叭

Sam: Loud.

Zahid: Sorry.

Sam (Narrator): Beginnings can be painful.

Zahid: But dude, twelve eight am. 

Sam (Narrator): But that doesn't mean they're bad.

Sam: I did it. I've officially stayed in our new apartment later than I've ever stayed anywhere.

Paige: Did I miss it? Did I miss twelve eight?

Sam: No, you are here just **in the nick of time**.

Paige: Oh, god.

Zahid: You **look pretty fly** in that **union suit** Paige.

> "to look fly" is slang that means "to look cool or attractive".

Piage: Oh thanks. [没听清楚] Sam, congratulations.

Sam: Thank you.

Paige: I brought you something. It's a money tree. It brings good luck and prosperity. I was thinking you could put it in your room at the spot right next to Edison's **tank**. It's great sun. It'll be the richest turtle in town.

Sam: Okay.

Paige; And it's an easy plant too. Just three quarters a cup of water every four days, and maybe some seaweed based plant food once a week, and just keep rotating of course.

Zahid: I'll help. I once had a plant survive for two months purely on Mountain Dew.

> 真有这种操作, [Will my plants grow faster if I water them with Mountain Dew? : shittyaskscience](https://www.reddit.com/r/shittyaskscience/comments/71re6t/will_my_plants_grow_faster_if_i_water_them_with/)

Paige: You know what? Never mind. I'll just come by and take care of it myself.

Sam: Good. I've got enough to do finishing all the items on my moving cheklist.

Zahid: Oh I'll take a few of those off your hand. Least I can do as a roomie for another woomie (?). I'll make a copy of the key for emergencies, and **switch over** the power, and give your mom a really big huge.

Sam: That's not on the list.

Zahid: I added it.

> 重读强调了 I.

Paige: You guys do good. This place has really nice **vibes**.

Sam: One hundred years ago, it was a slaughter hourse.
